Keith Johnson
	I listened to Sibelius’s Symphony No. 2 via the Classical Music Library. I listened to a recording of the Berlin Philharmonic under the direction of Herbert von Karajan, recorded in 1980 on EMI Classics label. Although I was not familiar with this piece before this semester, when I began listening to the first movement (9:47) it sounded oddly familiar. It reminded me of the colonial days and the grand European empires. It has a light, refined style, while at the same time it has a powerful, slightly more menacing undertone with the woodwind runs. I especially like measures like measure 100, with powerful walls of sound and interesting harmonic changes. My favorite parts, though, are the occasional brass chorales that speak of power and majesty.
	The second movement (14:32) I find very interesting; as I am a bassoonist I found that the melody carried by the bassoons (in octaves) was quite enjoyable; I did not know that it was there. This movement reminds me of a piece by Edward MacDowell in his Woodland Sketches, From an Indian Lodge. It is mysterious, yet has a moving melodic line that stirs up memories of ancient wonders. As the movement grows in intensity, it is as though this ancient majesty has been stirred up and is running amuck. 
	In the third movement (6:42), it is as though the first two movements meet first in strife, and then in understanding. As it continues on to the fourth movement (16:27), this merging, melding, and mixing continues until the two primary themes emerge intertwined as one. The vigorous mystery of the second movement forms a solid foundation for the melody and majesty of the first movement to ride upon. The occasional woodwind chorales merge the marauding bassoons of the second with the sharp runs of the first to create rich harmonies and complex melodies. 
	Overall, I loved listening to this piece. As each part ebbed and flowed, all of the music emerged as greater than the sum of the parts; the juxtaposition of the movements created wonderful contrast that make the work incredible to absorb. 
